
Updated for version 3.5.0

Server 3.5 is an update for the current CGI-based server whose dispatch code is
written using Perl. The code is still Perl :-( but will have several enhancements 
suggested/implemented by various people over the past few months. 

* This version of the OPeNDAP server is built and distributed separately from
the libdap library.

* Only the nph-dods script and dods.rc files will be installed in the cgi binary 
directory. The remainder of the Perl and the 'helper' programs are now stored 
elsewhere. This makes it much harder for people to hack the servers and also makes 
setting up several servers at one site simpler. This design change was suggested 
by John Allison at UCAR, I think, and I don't know why it has take me so long to 
release a version of the server that employs it... Others may have also suggested 
this and I was just to thick to pick up on it. ;-)

* The code (except for nph-dods and dods.rc) now installs in regular directories 
as you'd expect with Unix/Linux. The Perl code installs in /usr/local/share/dap 
and the C++/C binaries install in /usr/local/sbin.

* The server no longer uses the web daemon's DocumentRoot as the root of the data. 
Instead the 'data root' is set from within the dods.rc file. This will make 
setting up secure servers simpler since it's no longer necessary to make two 
security configurations for the data. The old design where data security is based 
on securing the server is still the model used by this server, but at least the 
management of that has been cut in half. This was suggested by Neil Killeen at 
CSIRO.

* The server now uses a smaller number of helper applications, which I've called 
'handlers' to process different types of files. Instead of having three programs
for netCDF, three for HDF, et c., there's now just one handler for each format.
(This was first implemented by Jake Hamby at JPL years ago and also by Jose Garcia 
and Patrick West from HAO). These handlers now have their own CVS/SVN modules and 
will be used by both this code and the Server4 code to be released over the course
of the next six months.

* Tools: The tools are helper programs that generate the info, ascii and HTML
responses for the server. These have been moved into the server's directory and
no longer make a round trip through the server to access data. This should speed
up the server and also ease some of the thorny configuration issues when setting
up a secure server.


$Id: NEWS,v 1.3 2005/05/27 17:56:03 jimg Exp $
